Second batch of snippet improvement (#53)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/attacks/timing-attacks/network-timing.md

// Measure how long it takes to complete the fetch requests
fetch('https://example.org', {
  mode: 'no-cors',
  credentials: 'include'
}).then(() => {
  // When fetch finishes, calculate the difference
  var time = performance.now() - start;
  console.log("The request took %dms.", time);
});
```

## Onload events

A similar process can be used to measure how long it takes to fetch a resource by simply watching for an onload event.

```javascript
// Insert script element into DOM
var script = document.createElement('script');
script.src = "https://example.org";
document.body.appendChild(script);

// Start the clock
var start = performance.now();

// When script loads, caculate the time it took to finish the request
script.onload = () => {
  var time = performance.now() - start;
  console.log("The request took %dms.", time)
}
```

{{< hint good >}}
A similar process can be repeated for other HTML elements, e.g. `<img>`, `<link>`, `<iframe>` which could be used in scenarios where other techniques fail. E.g. [Fetch Metadata]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/fetch-metadata.md">}}) protections could whitelist some of the elements.
{{< /hint >}}

## Sandboxed Frame Timing Attacks

> If a page doesn't have any [Framing Protections]({{< ref "../../defenses/opt-in/xfo.md" >}}) implemented, an attacker can obtain the time measurement of both the initial request and subresources load. Because the loading time for the iframe depends on both the network and processing the subresources (e.g. expensive scripts), the attacker can eliminate the noise of script execution by including the [`sandbox`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe) attribute in the `<iframe>`. This attribute will block a lot of features, including script execution if `allow-scripts` value is not specified, which results in almost pure network measurement.

Reviewer: What do you think of this change? I found the initial paragraph a little hard to follow and I think this makes it a bit clearer. 

```suggestion
If a page doesn't have any [Framing Protections]({{< ref "../../defenses/opt-in/xfo.md" >}}) implemented, an attacker can time how long it takes for the page and all subresources to load over the network. By default, the `onload` handler for an iframe will be invoked after all the resources have been loaded and all javascript has finished executing. But, an attacker can eliminate the noise of script execution by including the [`sandbox`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe) attribute in the `<iframe>`. This attribute will block a lot of features including Javascript execution, which results in almost pure network measurement.
```

Author: That's a good change. Just for consistency I replaced `javascript` -> `Javascript`

```javascript
var iframe = document.createElement('iframe');
// Set the URL of the destination website
iframe.src = "https://example.org";
// Set sandbox attribute to block script execution
iframe.sandbox = "";
document.body.appendChild(iframe);

// Measure the time before the request was initiated
var start = performance.now();

> iframe.onload = () => {

Reviewer: Same question about placement as before

  // When iframe loads, calculate the time difference
  var time = performance.now() - start;

>   console.log("The iframe and subresources took %dms to load.", time)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  console.log("The iframe and subresources took %d ms to load.", time)
```

}
```

## Cross-window Timing Attacks

An attacker can also measure the network timing of a page by opening a new window with `window.open` and waiting for the `window` to start loading. The snippet below shows how to make this measurement.

```javascript
// Open a new window to measure when the iframe starts loading
var win = window.open('https://example.org');
// Measure the initial time
var start = performance.now();
// Define the loop

> function measure(){

Reviewer: Honest question: Is there a benefit to doing this via setTimeout instead of just a standard `while(true)`? I guess the idea is that it releases the JS event loop? If that is the case, I think a hint underneath explaining that would be very helpful. Would there be a potentially cleaner way of showing that via some `async`, `await` usage? Not really sure, just wondering if this POC could be written in a way that is more immediately obvious. 

Though I do think this is clearer than the original postMessage based loop.

Author: `while(true)` would not work on FF because it would consume all the resource power for example. Also might exceed the resources in chrome. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/setImmediate We could try to link to that. Async is not mentioned there and I didn't research how would async work, but one thing that it would most likely cause is recursion limit exceed.

Reviewer: Huh, okay yeah I guess that makes sense. Added a suggestion to include a hint to explain this since it does just seem a little weird without the context.

  try{

>     // If the window is still same-origin, immediately repeat the loop
>     // but without blocking the event loop
>     win.origin;
>     setTimeout(measure, 0);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // If the page has loaded, then it will be on a different origin so `win.origin` will throw an exception
    win.origin;
    // If the window is still same-origin, immediately repeat the loop but without blocking the event loop
    setTimeout(measure, 0);
```

  }catch(e){

>     // When the window stwitches origins, calculate the time difference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Once the window has loaded, calculate the time difference
```

    var time = performance.now() - start;

>     console.log('It took %dms to load the window', time);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    console.log('It took %d ms to load the window', time);
```

  // When iframe loads, calculate the time difference
  var time = performance.now() - start;
  console.log("The iframe and subresources took %d ms to load.", time)
}
```

## Cross-window Timing Attacks

An attacker can also measure the network timing of a page by opening a new window with `window.open` and waiting for the `window` to start loading. The snippet below shows how to make this measurement.

```javascript
// Open a new window to measure when the iframe starts loading
var win = window.open('https://example.org');
// Measure the initial time
var start = performance.now();
// Define the loop
function measure(){
  try{
    // If the page has loaded, then it will be on a different origin 
    // so `win.origin` will throw an exception
    win.origin;
    // If the window is still same-origin, immediately repeat the loop but 
    // without blocking the event loop
    setTimeout(measure, 0);
  }catch(e){
    // Once the window has loaded, calculate the time difference
    var time = performance.now() - start;
    console.log('It took %d ms to load the window', time);
  }
}
// Initiate the loop that breaks when the window switches origins
measure();
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< hint info >}}
Note that this POC uses `setTimeout` in order to create the rough equivalent of a `while(true)` loop. It is necessary to implement this way in order to avoid blocking the JS event loop. 
{{< /hint >}}
```
